User Guide
==========

This Databrary Access Guide provides information useful for institutions
and Authorized Investigators who wish to use Databrary.

About Databrary
---------------

Databrary is a restricted access research data library specialized for
storing, streaming, and sharing video and audio recordings and related
data. Databrary\'s mission is to support data sharing among researchers
in the behavioral, social, educational, developmental, neural, and
computer sciences.

### Protecting participants and accelerating discovery

Widespread data sharing will accelerate discovery and make research more
transparent, robust, and reproducible. To realize the full benefits of
sharing data about human and non-human animals, research participants
and their data must be protected. The responsibility for protecting
participants and data is shared among researchers, institutions, and
Databrary.

Databrary has a multi-pronged approach to fostering data sharing while
upholding ethical research principles. Access is restricted to
Authorized Investigators whose access must be approved by their
institution. Institutions must provide ethics oversight of Authorized
Investigators through a research ethics board or Institutional Review
Board (IRB) with standards equivalent to that required to secure
Federalwide Assurance (FWA) status from the U.S. Government[^1].
Authorized Investigators who share human data with others must secure
permission to share from research participants and record that
permission level for each file stored on Databrary. In turn, Authorized
Investigators who access Databrary and use data shared by other
Authorized Investigators must follow ethical research principles,
including respect for the sharing permissions granted by research
participants. Taken together, these features aim to protect the rights
of research participants while reducing barriers to data sharing.

### Types of data

Databrary stores and shares images, video, and audio recordings that may
include identifiable information, data and metadata that are not
typically sensitive, and de-identified data. Exact birth dates may be
stored for use in calculating exact ages, but exact birth dates are only
exposed to Authorized Investigators or Affiliates given specific access
to data. Names, addresses, email addresses, financial information,
government ID numbers, detailed geographic location information, and
other personally identifiable data elements are **not** stored or shared
on Databrary.

Databrary stores metadata related to full datasets (e.g., title,
authors, related publications, description of the dataset, keywords or
tags, associated URLs), individual study sessions (e.g. metadata related
to participants, study groups and conditions, location, language, and
session date and tasks), and video files (e.g., title, duration, tags)
related to a dataset.

### Release levels

To make it clear to participants and researchers the level of access
granted to specific files, Databrary developed a set of standard release
levels that are indicated with consistent icons and language across the
site:

- *Unknown*. Consent missing or not obtained. This content is not
    shared and access is restricted to specific people selected by an
    Authorized Investigator.
- *Private*. This content is not shared and access is restricted to
    specific people selected by an Authorized Investigator. *Note*: This
    is the default for all files and must be specifically changed by an
    Authorized Investigator (or an Affiliate with suitable privileges).
- *Authorized Users*. This content is restricted to authorized
    Databrary users (Authorized Investigators and Affiliates granted
    access to shared Databrary data) and may not be redistributed in any
    form.
- *Learning Audiences*. This content is restricted to authorized
    Databrary users (Authorized Investigators and Affiliates granted
    access to shared Databrary data), who may use clips or images from
    it in presentations for informational or educational purposes. Note,
    such presentations may be videotaped or recorded and those videos or
    recordings may then be made available to the public via the internet
    (e.g., YouTube).
- *Public*. This content is available openly to anyone.

All Authorized Investigators and Affiliates must follow the restrictions
on uses indicated by these release levels. Furthermore, when using files
released for access by *Learning Audiences,* Authorized Investigators
and Affiliates must exercise professional judgment in deciding which
clips or images to show to what audiences and in what contexts.

### Non-research uses

Many uses of Databrary do not constitute research (e.g., browsing shared
videos, downloading videos of displays or procedures, or showing
excerpts in research or educational presentations). Authorized
Investigators (and their Affiliates) must follow Institutional policies
concerning whether specific non-research uses of Databrary require prior
institutional approval. Moreover, Authorized Investigators and
Affiliates must always respect the release level associated with shared
files. For example, data marked with an *Authorized Users* release level
may only be viewed in research contexts (e.g., in the Authorized
Investigator\'s laboratory) by the Authorized Investigator or people
under the supervision of the Authorized Investigator. Similarly, only
those data with a release level of *Learning Audiences* or *Public* may
be shown in research or educational presentations outside the Authorized
Investigator\'s laboratory.

### Research uses

Authorized Investigators must secure institutional approvals prior to
conducting research with data shared on Databrary. In the U.S. context,
conducting secondary analysis on shared video data may not qualify as
human subjects research because there is no direct contact with research
participants. Still, a research project involving video data reuse may
require ethics board or IRB review and approval because the data are
identifiable.

For Researchers
---------------

### Gaining access

Some materials on Databrary are available to the public, but access to
most data requires that a researcher secure formal written authorization
from their institution.

#### The Databrary Access Agreement permits data use and data contribution

Databrary restricts access to Authorized Investigators whose
institutions sign a formal Databrary Access Agreement. The Databrary
Access Agreement is the legally binding document that formalizes the
authorization process.

The Databrary Access Agreement combines provisions for data use and data
contribution. Unlike data use agreements that allow specific individuals
access to a particular dataset for a discrete research purpose, the
Databrary Access Agreement allows any Authorized Investigator to access
all shared datasets on Databrary and to use the datasets for many
different institutionally-approved purposes. In addition, the Databrary
Access Agreement permits Authorized Investigators to upload data and to
share it with other Authorized Investigators in accord with the sharing
permissions granted by participants and any required institutional
approvals. Databrary believes that combining data use and data
contribution in a single agreement reduces barriers to data sharing,
meets emerging funder mandates to share research data, and accelerates
progress in research.

#### Applying for Institutional Authorization

Individuals who are eligible to conduct independent research, submit
funding proposals as the lead investigator, have Principal Investigator
(PI) status, or have tenure-track faculty positions at their
Institution, may apply to their institution for approval to be named an
Authorized Investigator. To receive authorization, a person must apply
for and receive authorization from their institution; Databrary does not
grant authorization separate from an institution. In the U.S., a college
or university\'s grants and contracts or sponsored programs office
usually takes responsibility for granting authorization by signing the
Databrary Access Agreement. Databrary staff will work with a researcher
and an institution to secure signatures on the Databrary Access
Agreement. The authorization process typically takes a few days to a few
weeks.

#### Research ethics review required prior to authorization approval

Some institutions may refer a researcher's request for authorization to
a research ethics board for review or approval prior to signing the DAA.
In that case, researchers may use the following language to communicate
with a research ethics board.

**Recommended Abstract language**

The purpose of this application is to access Databrary
(<https://www.databrary.org/about/about-databrary.html),> a digital data
library specialized for storing, managing, preserving, analyzing, and
sharing video. I do not currently have data to contribute to the
library; however, I would like to have access to its contents to browse
the available data and potentially develop a research project. After I
have a research proposal, I will submit a new protocol for IRB review
and determination.

**Access to Identifiers**

I will have access to dates directly related to an individual, including
birth date, and full face photographic images and comparable images.

**Purpose of accessing Databrary**

The purpose of this application is to access Databrary
(<https://www.databrary.org/about/about-databrary.html),> a digital data
library specialized for storing, managing, preserving, analyzing, and
sharing video and related data about human and non-human animal
behavior. I would like to have access to its contents to browse the data
and potentially develop a research idea to submit for IRB approval in a
separate future application.

### Using shared data

Using data shared by others ("secondary use") usually involves low risk
to participants because the new study does not involve direct contact
with the participants. However, the level of risk depends on the nature
of the data, whether the data are identifiable or otherwise sensitive,
and the sort of permission that participants initially granted for
sharing. Reuse of existing shared data is common practice, so most IRBs
have established procedures for determining the level of risk posed by a
particular project involving secondary use. For example, many IRBs deem
exempt from review projects that involve the secondary use of
non-sensitive, de-identified data.

#### Seeking research ethics board approval for use

You will need to request permission from your ethics board or IRB for
secondary data use when you move from activities preparatory to research
to actually conducting research. For example, when you move from
exploring the feasibility of a coding scheme to deciding to apply it
systematically to a set of videos, you would need to submit a request to
your IRB. You must still protect the data during pre-research or
research planning as you normally would for these sorts of data as
outlined in the Databrary Access Agreement.

Keep in mind the following definitions from the Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR) in the United States:

*Is it Research?*

Research is a "systematic investigation, including research development,
testing and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to
generalizable knowledge" (45 CFR 46.102(l)).

*Is it a Human Subject?*

A human subject is "a living individual about whom an investigator
(whether professional or student) conducting research:

(i) obtains information or biospecimens through intervention or
    interaction with the individual, and uses, studies, or analyzes the
    information or biospecimens; or

(ii) \(ii\) obtains, uses, studies, analyzes, or generates identifiable
     private information or identifiable biospecimens" (45 CFR
     46.102(e)).

If you can answer YES to these two questions, you need to request
permission from your IRB. If you are not sure, contact your IRB and they
can help you.

### Selecting and managing Affiliates

After being authorized by their institution, Authorized Investigators
may then authorize staff, undergraduate or graduate students, and
postdoctoral trainees to access Databrary as Affiliates. In granting a
person Affiliate status, an Authorized Investigator takes responsibility
for that person\'s use of Databrary.

#### Affiliates outside of the Authorized Investigator's Institution

An Authorized Investigator may grant Affiliate status to a person
outside their institution if permitted by that institution. If a person
is eligible to be an Authorized Investigator at their home institution,
that person should apply for access to Databrary through their home
institution. Except in unusual circumstances, researchers eligible to be
Authorized Investigators should not be granted access to Databrary as
the Affiliate of another Authorized Investigator.

Authorized Investigators are responsible for ensuring that Affiliates
have human subjects and/or animal research training appropriate for the
institution and remain in good standing with the institution.

#### Affiliate access to an Authorized Investigator\'s data

Authorized Investigators determine which of the Authorized
Investigator\'s datasets an Affiliate can access. Authorized
Investigators can set each Affiliate\'s access to one of the following
levels:

- *No access*: Affiliate cannot access any of the Authorized
    Investigator\'s data. This is the default.
- *Read-only access*: Affiliate has view access to all of the
    Authorized Investigator\'s data. (The affiliate may view and
    download videos and other identifying information, including data
    that are not released for sharing.)
- *Read/Write Access*: Affiliate can access and edit the Authorized
    Investigator\'s datasets. (The affiliate may view, download, add,
    change, and remove data without restriction.)
- *Manager*: Affiliate can access and change permissions on the
    Authorized Investigator\'s data. The Manager can name other people
    as Affiliates. The Manager may additionally change the access
    controls and sharing levels of the Authorized Investigator\'s data.
    Manager-level permission should be granted with utmost care.

These levels are analogous to granting an Affiliate different levels of
access to the Authorized Investigator\'s laboratory data server.
Accordingly, the Investigator must trust Affiliates granted this access
and supervise and manage Affiliates granted these privileges. The
Authorized Investigator must assign an expiration date to each
Affiliate\'s access.

#### Affiliate access to Databrary

Affiliates can only gain access to data on Databrary that has been
shared by *other* Authorized Investigators if specifically granted that
access by their supervising Authorized Investigator. The Authorized
Investigator must assign an expiration date to each Affiliate\'s access.

Many Authorized Investigators grant Affiliates access only to datasets
the Authorized Investigator controls, not to other datasets shared on
Databrary. Some Authorized Investigators grant access to datasets shared
on Databrary to senior graduate students, postdoctoral trainees, or
trusted research staff.

#### Accessing data shared by other Databrary users

Authorized Investigators automatically have access to data on Databrary
that has been shared by other Authorized Investigators. Affiliates have
access to shared data on Databrary only if granted that access by the
Authorized Investigator who supervises them.

### Contributing data

Only Authorized Investigators and Managers may create new datasets. Only
Authorized Investigators may share datasets with others.

#### Types of data

##### Non-sensitive/non-identifiable data or materials

Authorized Investigators may upload to Databrary and share
non-identifiable videos of research procedures, computer displays,
research protocols, analysis code, and other research materials without
any additional approvals, provided that sharing these elements with
Databrary does not violate intellectual property rights of any person.
De-identified or pseudonymized research data may be uploaded and shared
subject to institutional policies and approval. If an Authorized
Investigator already has approval to share a de-identified or
pseudonymized dataset with other researchers or with the public, then
sharing that dataset on Databrary is permitted. All files uploaded to
Databrary must be marked with a sharing release level. The default
sharing release level is *Private*. Although many non-sensitive,
de-identified, or pseudonymized data files could be made available to
the public, it may be prudent to share de-identified or pseudonymized
datasets only with Authorized Investigators.

##### Identifiable or sensitive data

Authorized Investigators must make preparations to share identifiable or
sensitive data with Databrary as described below.

###### Securing Institutional approval

Authorized Investigators must secure approval from their institutions
prior to sharing data with Databrary. Institutional approval usually
involves research ethics board or IRB review or its equivalent. Approval
to share data may be included in a new research protocol application or
as an amendment to an existing protocol.

For human subjects data, Databrary recommends adapting the Databrary
Release Template although the exact Databrary Release Template language
is not required. The Databrary Release Template serves as a guideline.
The institutional research ethics board or IRB must determine what
specific language should be used for securing data sharing permission
and whether requesting permission to share data should be part of the
research consent process or separate from it. It is essential that
whatever language and permission process the institution requires
enables the Authorized Investigator to determine clearly what level of
sharing release participants have granted. Authorized Investigators must
be able to assign a sharing release level to each file uploaded to
Databrary that reflects the sharing permission granted by the research
participant.

In some cases, research ethics boards and IRBs have deemed that certain
release language in research consent forms from previously collected
data permits sharing in Databrary. This has allowed archival data
collected prior to the creation of Databrary to be stored and shared in
the library. If an Authorized Investigator has archival data, Databrary
staff are happy to discuss whether and how these might be stored and
shared on the system.

###### Removing data destruction clauses from research consent documents

Researchers and IRBs often have misconceptions about regulations
pertaining to data destruction, especially where video or audio
recordings are concerned. In the U.S., NIH and NSF do not require data
destruction. Data destruction clauses inherently conflict with the
ability to store and share data indefinitely via repositories like
Databrary. Rather than promising to destroy data after some time period
in a research protocol, Databrary recommends the following language:
\"Data will be stored for an indefinite period in a restricted data
library on the internet (databrary.org).\"

###### Obtaining participant release for sharing

After research protocol approval has been granted, Authorized
Investigators may start securing permission from participants and
recording those permissions.

Authorized Investigators must ensure that the process used for obtaining
participant release for sharing meets relevant regulatory requirements,
such as the GDPR.

####### Why ask

Video and audio recordings of participants are inherently identifiable.
Thus, to share identifiable data on Databrary, Authorized Investigators
must secure permission from the people depicted in recordings or images.
Authorized Investigators can share identifiable research recordings (or
other identifiable data elements like birth dates) only when the
Authorized Investigators (a) get approval from their Institutions to do
so, (b) inform participants about what sharing these data elements
means, and (c) secure participants\' permission to share. Databrary
calls this data sharing permission a \"release\" because it involves
releasing data for use by other researchers.

####### When to ask

Databrary recommends that Authorized Investigators ask participants for
permission to share at the end of data collection after participants
acquire first-hand knowledge about the study procedures. This ensures
that consent to participate is completely separate from permission to
share and it mitigates the risk that asking participants about sharing
their data will affect their decision about whether to participate in
the research. However, some institutions may prefer to have Authorized
Investigators incorporate data sharing permission into the research
consent process or even to have data sharing permission be part of an
entirely separate protocol. The important and essential point is to
secure sharing permission and record it faithfully.

####### How to ask

To standardize the process of obtaining data sharing releases from
participants---and make it as simple as possible for
researchers---Databrary developed the Databrary Release Template. The
template can be added to or incorporated within human subjects research
ethics protocols. The Databrary Release Template was developed and
refined in close consultation with the IRB office at NYU. It gives
researchers a standardized way to obtain the necessary permissions to
share data in Databrary. The template makes it clear and unambiguous to
participants about what agreeing to share data in Databrary will mean.

#### Uploading to Databrary

##### What to upload

In addition to video, Databrary can store many types of data and
supplemental files associated with a research project such as images,
displays, stimuli, graphs, protocols, blank questionnaires, coding
manuals, coding spreadsheets, physiological data, imaging data, analysis
code, analysis spreadsheets, and blank consent or release documents.
Databrary permits Authorized Investigators to store any information
permitted by the institution. However, some information poses greater
risks to participants than others, and these should be stored on
Databrary only after special consideration. For example, first or last
names, home location information more specific than state, and contact
information are generally considered high risk for the disclosure of
participants\' identities. These data items should **not** be uploaded
to Databrary.

Video and audio recordings may be uploaded to Databrary if the
Authorized Investigator has secured participant (or parent/guardian)
permission and the institution approves. Under some circumstances, an
institution may determine that participant (or parent) permission is not
necessary to store video and audio recordings on Databrary. For example,
for recordings collected a long time in the past, participant (or
parent) permission may be unavailable, and the institution may determine
that the risk to participants is sufficiently low to allow sharing. Or,
an Authorized Investigator may choose to store video and audio
recordings on Databrary for sharing only among collaborators and
Affiliates specifically chosen by the Authorized Investigator, but have
no plans to share the videos with the broader Databrary community. This
use of Databrary is permitted, but discouraged, because the purpose of
Databrary is to foster data sharing beyond an individual research
project or group.

Exact birth dates or test dates may also be considered identifiable data
elements. However, these dates can be highly valuable for future
research uses, and may pose a lower level of risk to participants than
other data elements. Accordingly, Databrary permits storage of exact
dates, but treats exact dates with special care. The system only exposes
exact dates to Authorized Investigators or their Affiliates who upload
the data, and only exposes exact dates in shared datasets if the
participant has agreed to share data (i.e., participant grants sharing
release at the *Authorized User, Learning Audiences, or Public* levels).

Other low risk data items such as race, ethnicity, gender, and related
personal characteristics may be stored on Databrary without specific
permission.

##### Assignment of sharing release level

The only essential item of information required for uploading files to
Databrary is the sharing release level. Authorized Investigators are
responsible for recording participant sharing release permissions and
assigning them to files uploaded to Databrary. Databrary assigns all
files a default release level of *Private*, so an Authorized
Investigator must change the default *Private* release setting to share
a file with people other than their Affiliates or research collaborators
on a specific dataset.

##### Who may upload

Authorized Investigators may upload data, and Authorized Investigators
determine who among their Affiliates may also upload data to Databrary.

##### When to upload

Authorized Investigators need not wait until a research project ends to
upload data to Databrary. Authorized Investigators may upload files to
Databrary as soon as possible after a data collection. This is called
active curation. It distributes the time required to curate a dataset
for sharing and thereby reduces the overall burden of data sharing.

#### Sharing data

##### With project collaborators

Authorized Investigators can grant their Affiliates or other Authorized
Investigators on Databrary access to research data and materials stored
on Databrary at any time. The data remain accessible only to the
specific individuals chosen by the Authorized Investigator. That is, all
data, even that marked for wider sharing, remain *Private*. Sharing a
dataset with the larger community of Databrary Authorized Investigators
or the public requires a separate step.

##### With the Databrary community

At a time when the Authorized Investigator chooses---e.g., when a paper
goes to press or a grant period ends---the Authorized Investigator may
choose to share the dataset with the community of Authorized
Investigators on Databrary. This makes each data file contained in the
dataset available to other Authorized Investigators and possibly the
public, but only in accordance with the sharing levels selected by
Authorized Investigators and always subject to the permission granted by
participants. That is, individual data files marked *Private* remain
accessible only to people the Authorized Investigator specifically
selects. Similarly, access to entire datasets labeled *Private* remains
solely under the control of the Authorized Investigator.

To share a dataset, the Authorized Investigator simply changes the
access level on that dataset. Datasets receive a persistent identifier
(DOI) when shared. Authorized Investigators may \"unshare\" a dataset,
but except under unusual circumstances, this is not considered best
practice.

#### Non-human animal data

We are developing guidance for the use of Databrary to store non-human
animal data. Please contact us if you are interested in doing so.

### Removing or altering participant data

Research participants in the European Economic Area (EEA) have certain
rights under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) pertaining to
the use, sharing, and removal of their personal data.

Since Databrary does not typically store information that maps personal
identities to the data stored on Databrary without a separate agreement,
Authorized Investigators and Institutions are responsible for responding
to any requests to provide copies of, change, restrict access to, or
delete a participant's personal data stored on Databrary. Databrary
cannot guarantee that personal data previously shared on Databrary can
be retrieved from all Authorized Investigators who have accessed the
data. Thus, in seeking permission from research participants to share
personal data via Databrary, Authorized Investigators should communicate
that there are limits to a participant\'s right to modify or delete
personal data previously shared on Databrary.

### Changing institutions

Authorized Investigators who change institutions must notify Databrary
of the change and its effective date. As soon as possible, the
Authorized Investigator must secure authorization from their new
institution. Authorized Investigators who are awaiting authorization
from their new institution will have access to their own data but not to
non-public data shared by other Authorized Investigators on Databrary.
After an Authorized Investigator has secured approval from their new
institution, full access privileges will be restored.

Your access to Databrary is granted by executing a Databrary Access
Agreement (DAA), a legally binding agreement between your institution
and Databrary. If you plan to change institutions, you therefore MUST
NOTIFY DATABRARY IMMEDIATELY so that we can execute a DAA with your new
institution.

You must:

● Notify Databrary within ten (10) days of your intention to leave your
current institution.

● Act promptly to sign and submit any necessary paperwork to your new
institution.

If you do not have a signed DAA with your new institution within thirty
(30) days of your start date, your access to Databrary will be
terminated until such time as we have an executed agreement.

As a reminder, your new institution must verify that:

a\. it maintains an ethics or Institutional Review Board with
U.S.-equivalent standards that reviews and approves research involving
human subjects,

b\. you have ethics training that addresses human subjects policy and
issues,

c\. you are eligible to conduct independent research at this institution
and the institution accepts responsibility for its Authorized
Investigators' actions related to the use of Databrary,

d\. it grants you the authority to choose and manage affiliates who meet
Databrary\'s qualifications and who agree to follow Databrary\'s ethical
principles, and

e\. the person executing this Access Agreement on behalf of the
institution has the authority to do so.

See the Databrary Access Agreement and Databrary\'s full policy on
ethics oversight for more information. If your new institution does not
meet these requirements, you will not be able to continue to access
Databrary.

What happens if I leave my institution and no longer have Authorized
Investigator Status?

Your access to Databrary is granted by executing a Databrary Access
Agreement (DAA), a legally binding agreement between your institution
and Databrary. If you plan to leave an institution and would no longer
qualify to have Authorized Investigator Status, you MUST NOTIFY
DATABRARY IMMEDIATELY.

You must:

● Notify Databrary within ten (10) days of your intention to leave your
current institution.

See the Databrary Access Agreement and Databrary\'s full policy on
ethics oversight for more information. If your new institution does not
meet these requirements, you will not be able to continue to access
Databrary.

Access to non-public data shared with other Authorized Investigators
will be suspended when you leave your institution. This suspension
extends to your Affiliates. In other words, you and your Affiliates will
be able to access only data that you uploaded to your profile page. Only
after a new institution grants authorization will you be able to regain
access to non-public data shared by other Authorized Investigators.

For research staff, students, and trainees
------------------------------------------

Databrary encourages research staff, undergraduate and graduate
students, and other research trainees to use Databrary. Databrary calls
these users Affiliates to indicate that they are affiliated with an
Authorized Investigator. An Affiliate is a person who (1) conducts
research under an Authorized Investigator's sponsorship and supervision
and (2) has been granted access to Databrary by the Authorized
Investigator. In most cases, Affiliates are students or research staff
and are not themselves eligible for Authorized Investigator status.
Thus, the access privileges of Affiliates are under the control of one
or more Authorized Investigators.

### Requesting access to Databrary

Add Step by Step Instructions

8.1 How do I request access from my Supervising Professor?

### Accessing a specific data set

8.2 I want to access a specific dataset on Databrary. How do I do this?

You must be sponsored by an Authorized Investigator and they need to
grant you access to ALL Shared Databrary Data. (Add link to Section 6?)

### Affiliates' rights and responsibilities

As an Affiliate, you have the same responsibilities to protect data and
research participants as do Authorized Investigators.

Every individual working with Databrary needs to have their own account.
Lab Databrary accounts are not permitted. Sharing of Databrary account
login credentials is not permitted.

Affiliates are not able to share their own data, nor may Affiliates
authorize other Affiliates on their own behalf to access Databrary.

### Moving to a faculty or independent research position

When Databrary Affiliates move on to an independent research or faculty
position they become eligible for Authorized Investigator status.
Contact Databrary staff to discuss the process of applying for
authorization at a new institution.

For Institutions {#for-institutions-1}
----------------

### What is Databrary

Databrary is a restricted access, web-based data library housed at New
York University. Databrary is designed for sharing identifiable or
sensitive research data, including video files and associated metadata.
Authorized Investigators approved by their institutions for access to
Databrary may access data shared by others and/or contribute data for
others to access. Databrary requires that an Authorized Investigator
secure institutional approval, usually from a research ethics board,
before contributing personally identifiable human or non-human animal
data to Databrary or conducting research on any data obtained from
others through Databrary. Databrary, however, does not require
institutional approval for permitted non-research uses (e.g.,
pre-research, preliminary analysis, self-study, teaching) beyond this
Databrary Access Agreement.

All institutions and Authorized Investigators agree to use Databrary and
data obtained through it exclusively for the purpose of non-commercial
scientific research or education.

Databrary is supported by the U.S. National Institutes of Health, the
U.S. National Science Foundation, DARPA, and private foundations.

### How Databrary differs from other data repositories

Databrary has several features that distinguish it from other data
repositories:

- A single binding agreement between NYU/Databrary and a researcher's
    institution (Databrary Access Agreement) permits both data use and
    contribution.

- Researchers granted institutional authorization to access Databrary
    may use data shared by other Authorized Investigators without having
    to secure (i) additional permission from the data contributor
    or (ii) approval from Databrary.

- Databrary requires that Authorized Investigators (i) secure all
    necessary institutional approvals to upload data to the site
    and (ii) secure explicit data sharing permission from human
    participants.

- Institutions take responsibility for authorizing researchers and
    reviewing and monitoring their research and non-research activities
    involving Databrary.

- Researchers take responsibility for securing required approvals from
    the institution and sharing permission from research participants,
    for protecting data, and for selecting, training, and managing
    access to restricted data by their staff, students, trainees, and
    others.

### Data security, integrity, and preservation

Data and metadata stored on Databrary are subject to the security
policies and best practices implemented by NYU. For more information
about these policies and services, visit NYU ITS Computer & Network
Security at <http://www.nyu.edu/its/security/>.

Data stored on Databrary will be preserved indefinitely in a secure data
storage facility at New York University (NYU). The facility is managed
by the university's Information Technology Services department. Central
IT staff handle storage, network, and backup systems. NYU does routine
tape backups that are stored off-site and performs regular file fixity
checks to monitor the integrity of stored assets.

Files uploaded to Databrary are assigned a unique identifier and have
metadata associating them to files that are uploaded to replace them.
Though only the latest version of a file is typically exposed to
Databrary site users. Files, once uploaded, are never deleted.

### For officials with signature authority

Some materials on Databrary are available to the public. but access to
most data requires that a researcher secure formal written authorization
from an institution. The Databrary Access Agreement (DAA) is the legally
binding document that formalizes the authorization process.

#### The Databrary Access Agreement permits data use and data contribution

The Databrary Access Agreement combines provisions for data use and data
contribution. Unlike data use agreements that allow specific individuals
access to a particular dataset for a discrete research purpose, the
Databrary Access Agreement allows Authorized Investigators to access all
shared datasets on Databrary and to use the datasets for many different
institutionally-approved purposes. In addition, the Databrary Access
Agreement permits Authorized Investigators to upload data and to share
it with other Authorized Investigators in accord with the sharing
permissions granted by participants and any required institutional
approvals. Databrary believes that combining data use and data
contribution in a single agreement reduces barriers to data sharing,
meets emerging funder mandates to share research data, and accelerates
progress in research.

#### Applying for Institutional Authorization

Individuals who are eligible to conduct independent research, submit
funding proposals as the lead investigator, have Principal Investigator
(PI) status, or have tenure-track faculty positions at their
institution, may apply to their institution for approval to be named an
Authorized Investigator. To receive authorization a person must apply
for and receive authorization from their institution; Databrary does not
grant authorization separate from an institution. In the U.S., a college
or university\'s grants and contracts or sponsored programs office
usually takes responsibility for granting authorization by signing the
Databrary Access Agreement. Databrary staff will work with a researcher
and an institution to secure signatures on the Databrary Access
Agreement. The authorization process typically takes a few days to a few
weeks.

#### When Authorized Investigators leave an Institution

Authorized Investigators are expected to inform Databrary when they
leave an institution. Institutions may also inform Databrary.

Access to non-public data shared with other Authorized Investigators
will be suspended when an Authorized Investigator leaves their
institution. The suspension extends to an Authorized Investigators'
Affiliates. Authorized Investigators will continue to have
password-protected access to data they uploaded to Databrary after they
leave an institution. When a new institution grants authorization,
Authorized Investigators will regain access to non-public data shared by
other Authorized Investigators.

If an Authorized Investigator retires, is incapacitated due to illness,
or dies, the institution should inform Databrary so that the Authorized
Investigator's account may be suspended. An institution may choose to
designate a data steward for the Authorized Investigator's data and
authorize that person to manage access to the data. If the institution
does not identify and authorize a data steward, Databrary staff will
serve that role. However, the Databrary staff serving as data steward
will not change the data sharing status of any specific dataset without
explicit written guidance from the institution.

#### Selecting Affiliates

If permitted by their institution, an Authorized Investigator may grant
a person outside their institution Affiliate status. Institutions may
establish policies governing the selection and management of Affiliates
by their Authorized Investigators.

If a person is eligible to be an Authorized Investigator at their home
institution, that person must apply for access to Databrary through
their home institution. Except in unusual circumstances, researchers
eligible to be Authorized Investigators at their home institution should
not be granted access to Databrary as the Affiliate of another
Authorized Investigator either from the same institution or a different
one. Databrary welcomes questions about these policies at
<contact@databrary.org>.

### For research ethics boards

#### Video\'s use cases extend beyond research

In addition to its many uses in research, video may be used for a
variety of pre-research and non-research uses, such as the documentation
of methodological details, the demonstration of computer-based tasks, or
the showing of video clips for teaching or scientific presentations.
Databrary encourages the storage and sharing of video for all of these
purposes, in a manner consistent with participant permissions and
institutional approvals.

#### Institutions determine when research ethics board or IRB approval is necessary

Databrary does not require prior research ethics board or IRB approval
for an Authorized Investigator to be granted access to the system or to
use Databrary\'s shared resources for non-research, educational, or
pre-research uses. However, in signing the Databrary Access Agreement,
all Authorized Investigators promise to secure research ethics approval
whenever their use of Databrary requires it under the institution\'s
policies.

Non-research, educational, or pre-research use cases may not require
research ethics board or IRB review and approval at every institution.
Institutions decide which use cases require research ethics board or IRB
review and approval.

#### What data are shared

Databrary contains images, video, and audio recordings that may be
identifiable, data and metadata that are not typically sensitive, and
de-identified data. Exact birth dates may be stored for use in
calculating exact ages, but exact birth dates are only exposed to
Authorized Investigators or Affiliates. Names, addresses, email
addresses, financial information, government ID numbers, detailed
geographic location information, and other personally identifiable data
elements are **not** stored and shared on Databrary.

#### Securing permission to share

To contribute and share identifiable data with Databrary, Authorized
Investigators must secure permission to store the recordings on
Databrary from research participants and any other people (e.g.,
research staff) who are recorded.

Databrary developed a Sharing Release Template that informs people
depicted in recordings of the potential risks associated with sharing
video and other data on Databrary. The Sharing Release Template is one
of the resources Databrary makes available to researchers. The Sharing
Release Template may be adapted for use at any institution and added to
any research ethics or IRB protocol. However, an institution may require
other release language to provide equivalent protections.

Whether de-identified or pseudonymized data may be shared with Databrary
without seeking explicit permission from research participants depends
on the Authorized Investigator\'s institution. Some ethics boards or
IRBs may allow de-identified or pseudonymized data to be shared without
the explicit permission of the research participant.

#### Uploading data and assigning sharing permission levels

Authorized Investigators who upload data to Databrary must assign to
each file the level of data sharing granted by research
participants---from none to public access. The sharing level assigned to
each file by default is *Private*, meaning that no person other than the
Authorized Investigator who uploaded the file and any Affiliates granted
access by the Authorized Investigator, may view the file.

Not only are data files assigned a *Private* sharing level by default,
but all newly created datasets are initially made *Private*, accessible
only to an Authorized Investigator, any Affiliates the Authorized
Investigator selects, and any other individual Authorized Investigators
granted specific access to the dataset. An Authorized Investigator may
elect to create an overview of a dataset when it is created and make the
overview publicly available. The overview can serve as the public face
of the dataset while the dataset is being collected and analyzed. This
can be useful in documenting progress on a research grant to sponsors.
The dataset overview does not expose data unless the Authorized
Investigator chooses to do so.

#### Sharing data

At a time when the Authorized Investigator chooses---e.g., when a paper
goes to press or a grant period ends---the Authorized Investigator may
choose to share the dataset with other Authorized Investigators on
Databrary. This makes the data contained in the dataset available to
other Authorized Investigators and possibly the public, but only in
accordance with the sharing levels selected by Authorized Investigators
and always subject to the permission granted by participants. That is,
individual data files marked *Private* remain accessible only to people
the Authorized Investigator specifically selects. Similarly, access to
datasets labeled *Private* remains solely under the control of the
Authorized Investigator.

#### Databrary and GDPR

Authorized Investigators may collect personal data from research
participants who have rights under the General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR). GDPR governs the collection of personal data in the
European Economic Area (EEA).

Databrary\'s servers are currently located in the United States, and
data stored on Databrary may be accessed, downloaded, and reused by
Authorized Investigators and their Affiliates located outside of the
EEA. Hundreds of institutions across the globe have signed the Databrary
Access Agreement. Databrary maintains a list of Authorized Investigators
who have access to shared research data at
<https://nyu.databrary.org/search?volume=false&f.party_authorization=4&f.party_is_institution=false>.

In seeking permission to collect data from research participants
governed by GDPR or similar provisions, Authorized Investigators should
communicate to research participants information about who may have
access to shared data on Databrary and where the data are stored.
Institutions and Authorized Investigators assume responsibility for
ensuring that research participants give sharing data permission that
satisfies the provisions of GDPR and for abiding by other provisions of
GDPR.

Databrary does not typically store information that links a person\'s
identity to specific files unless there is a separate agreement between
the Authorized Investigator, the institution, and Databrary to store
this type of data. Therefore, if a research participant requests a copy
of data stored on Databrary or the modification or deletion of personal
data that is stored on Databrary, the Authorized Investigator or
institution is responsible for responding to the request, not Databrary.
Also, Databrary cannot guarantee that data previously shared with other
Authorized Investigators via Databrary can be retrieved from all
Authorized Investigators who accessed a participant\'s personal data
prior to its modification or removal. Thus, Authorized Investigators
should communicate to research participants that there are limits to a
participant\'s right to modify or delete personal data that have already
been shared on Databrary. The Databrary Release Template contains
language for this purpose.

When accessing data shared by other Authorized Investigators,
institutions and their Authorized Investigators assume responsibility
for ensuring that the sharing permission research participants have
given in other contexts outside of the EEA meet relevant GDPR
provisions.

How to
---------

Coming soon!

### Find data

### Download data

### Get ethics board approval

### Upload data

### Share data

### Manage Affiliates

Definitions
===========

**Access Agreement**: The Databrary Access Agreement between an
Authorized Investigator and his or her Institution and New York
University (NYU) on behalf of Databrary.

**Affiliate**: A person who conducts research under an Authorized
Investigator\'s sponsorship and supervision and who has been granted
access to Databrary by the Authorized Investigator. In most cases,
Affiliates are students or research staff and are not eligible for
Authorized Investigator status.

**Authorized Investigator**: A person who has permission from an
Institution to conduct independent research and who has received
authorization from an Institution and from Databrary to access
Databrary.

**Authorized Organizational Representative (AOR)**: A person granted
authority by an Institution to sign the Databrary Access Agreement on
behalf of the Institution and thereby bind the Institution to the terms
of the Databary Access Agreement.

**Institution**: An academic, not-for-profit, research, government, or
health entity whose employees or students conduct scientific research or
educational activities.

[^1]: https://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/register-irbs-and-obtain-fwas/
